UI Session Improvements (#3744)
nautobot/nautobot: nautobot/docs/development/react-ui.md

# Building the React UI

## Introduction

> Nautobot 2.0 introduces a new user interface built on React. This new UI is a complete replacement for the previous Django-based UI, and is the recommended interface for all users. The Django UI will be removed in a future release.

Reviewer: > is the recommended interface for all users

Is this true for 2.0?

> Nautobot 2.0 introduces a new user interface built on React. This new UI is a complete replacement for the previous Django-based UI, and is the recommended interface for all users. The Django UI will be removed in a future release.

Author: ```suggestion
Nautobot 2.0 introduces a new user interface built on React. This new UI will eventually be a complete replacement for the previous Django-based UI. It currently prioritizes read-only operations for core views. In subsequent releases, more operations and features will become available in this new UI.
```

## Design Patterns

A key change with moving to a client-side application for the user interface is that the application is now stateful. This means that the application is aware of the current state of the user interface, and can update the UI without requiring a page refresh. This is a significant change from the previous Django-based UI, which was stateless. In order to achieve this, a perspective on how the UI is rendered is required. Since much of the data is retrieved from the API, the UI is rendered in two phases:

- **Phase 1**: The UI is rendered with placeholder data, and the API is queried for the actual data
- **Phase 2**: The UI is re-rendered with the actual data

This encourages the UI to be built in a way that is resilient to changes in the data, and allows the UI to be updated without requiring a page refresh. Placeholder data can either be empty, for example on a list view this is easy: an empty list `[]`. But in more complex cases, a view may choose to show a loading indicator until the data is available.

In most cases, we build the UI with the preference we only display the final component once the data is available and display a loading indicator until then.

> ### State Management

Reviewer: Future enhancement idea for some more sections under `State Management`: 

- Reducers

The React UI is built with a concept of state management, which is handled by Redux. There is a single state store that is used to manage the state of the entire application, split into two core sections:

- **Application State**: Managed by Redux
    - Is the user logged in?
    - What is the current user?
    - What is the current page?
    - What are the models and navigation menu the user can access?
- **API State**: Managed by RTK Query (a subset library provided by Redux)
    - Previous responses to detail and list requests

These sections are known as "slices" of state, and have their own methods for updating and retrieving state. For more information on Redux, see the [Redux documentation](https://redux.js.org/).

> ### Hooks

Reviewer: Future enhancement idea for some more sections under `Hooks`: 

- `useDispatch`
- `useEffect`
- `useSelector`

> The React UI uses hooks to manage state and side effects. Hooks are functions that let you “hook into” React state and lifecycle features. To learn more about hooks, see the [React Hooks documentation](https://react.dev/reference/react).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The React UI uses hooks to manage state and side effects. Hooks are functions that let you "hook into" React state and lifecycle features. To learn more about hooks, see the [React Hooks documentation](https://react.dev/reference/react).
```

> The React UI uses hooks to manage state and side effects. Hooks are functions that let you “hook into” React state and lifecycle features. To learn more about hooks, see the [React Hooks documentation](https://react.dev/reference/react).

Reviewer: > Hooks are functions that let you “hook into” React state and lifecycle features

A little bit more context on what value this provides would be good. (Maybe "Hooks are events that can be fired when specified state data changes or components are rendered/re-rendered")
